In this lesson, you will be using a technique called
Singular Value Decomposition to make recommendations.
The math associated with singular value decomposition can be pretty complex.
The main goal is for you to be able to use this technique to make recommendations.
Since knowing the math inside and out isn't really the goal here,
we'll look at some of the math associated with this technique,
and then I'll add additional resources throughout the lesson,
if you decide you want to dive into the details.
So, the first thing I want do here,
is to motivate you to understand why we would use
singular value decomposition to make recommendations.
In the early 2000s,
Netflix released a data set with just three columns.
Much like the reviews dataset you've been working with,
but with many more rows.
They offered a million dollar prize to
the person or team who could make the best recommendations.
I remember at the time,
I was at Iowa State,
and a group of my professors had teamed up and we're working on making recommendations.
With much of the leaders belonging to these large research teams,
an individual by the name of Simon Funk,
remained amongst the top ten.
The algorithm he used to make his recommendations
was none other than the one you'll learn in this lesson.
Known as Funk Singular Value Decomposition or FunkSVD.